#sidebar TableOfContents
 * v1.0.520
  * Two-fold increase in collection speed (two times less impact on the profiled program comparing to that of previous profiler versions);

 * v1.0.500
  * Crash at profiling application exiting fixed;
  * x64 installer now installs VS-integration addin;

 * v1.0.493
  * Profiler's window is now not closed at the profiling application's finish and is held until explicitly closed by user;

 * v1.0.487
  * x64 platform support implemented. A very alpha version, but it worth trying!

 * v1.0.480
  * There was a bug leading to proportional increase in all timings. It was caused by that processor's ticks duration were incorrectly measured. Now the bug fixed;

 * v1.0.473
  * MicroProfiler is now coming as MSI installation package;
  * Executable' name of a profiled application is now displayed in the profiler's window caption.

 * r443
  * MicroProfiler no longer require DIA to be installed on the target machine. It now uses Debug Helper library that comes with Windows;

 * r440
  * Windows XP compatibility fixed (RegGetValue is not available on this platform);

 * r436
  * Integration with VS 2005 (8.0) is now fully functional;

 * r427
  * Children/Parent statistics is now displayed. It has been moved from experimental to the main branch of development and backed by tests;
  * VisualStudio integration implemented (works with VS 7.1, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0, 11.0). It allows:
   * Enable profiling on a project in one click (using context menu in solution explorer);
   * Easy removal of all profiler traces from the project;
   * No need in additional copying of micro-profiler.dll to the directory of an application being profiled.
  * Performance improvements in analysis/frontend parts. Now the frontend updates are being performed less frequently than call trace analyses, not spending CPU time on UI updates;
  * MS DIA usage changed. Now the newest available version from the list of 10.0, 9.0, 8.0, 7.1 is being picked.

 * r353 (experimental)
  * VisualStudio 9.0 SP (2008) integration implemented. It allows:
   * Enable profiling on a project in one click (using context menu in solution explorer);
   * Easy removal of all profiler traces from the project;
  * Performance improvements in analysis part.

 * r265 (experimental)
  * Statistics of parent callers is now visible for the focused function. Also it is possible to drill-up by double-clicking the caller function.

 * r138 (experimental)
  * Statistics of child calls made from a function selected is now available. You now can drill-down by double-clicking in child statistics list.

 * r102
  * Ability to create frontend as in-process server (by specifying {{{micro_profiler::profiler_frontend pf(&micro_profiler::create_inproc_frontend)}}}).

 * r98
  * Windows XP+ visual styles supported;
  * Resizing of the main window supported;
  * Statistics list view headers now have sorting direction arrows;
  * Ability to copy all the statistics to the clipboard as text;
  * Window icon added.

 * r89
  * Collector and Frontend are merged into one dll. You have to register only one file - the dll. Frontend is run from a surrogate COM-process;
  * Recursion control: inclusive times are collected only for top-level function calls, plus maximal recursion depth is displayed for a function;
  * Significant speedup in analysis thread by using address-specific hash-functions for statistics and recursion level dictionaries;
  * Test runner (run-tests.cmd) is included into deployment package to ensure platform compatibility. Requires VS2008 with unit-testing framework installed.

 * r68
  * Initial revision. Separate collector/frontend parts.