#sidebar TableOfContents
There are a few simple steps to get micro-profiler integrated into VisualStudio:
 # Extract the contents of a deployment package to an empty directory on the target machine;
 # Make sure no VisualStudio instance is running;
 # Perform the registration: {{{regsvr32 micro-profiler.dll}}};
 # Run VisualStudio and go to Tools/Addins... There you may load micro-profiler addin explicitely and/or specify whether to load it on IDE startup;
 # Start using micro-profiler!

 Note: if you are going to profile an application on the clean machine w/o VS installed, please, make sure that you have DIA library registered on that machine. It should be of at least the IDE version you used to build application you are going to profile. You can get the DIA library for instance from here: {{{%VSINSTALLDIR%\Common7\Packages\Debugger\msdiaXXX.dll}}}.

To add profiling to your application right-click on the target application project in the solution tree and check 'Enable Profiling' checkmark in the context menu. For now only 'exe' project types are supported.

In order to remove any profiler support trace from your project settings, use 'Remove Profiling Support' context menu.

The profiler' window will be opened automatically at the application startup when it is built with 'Enable Profiling' checkmark. It is comprised from three lists: the middle list displays all functions (with stats) that are being called, the top list displays functions that call the currently selected function (callers), and the bottom list displays functions that are being called from the currently selected function (callees). You may drill-down or drill-up by double-clicking in the callers/callees lists.